---
layout:     post
title:      Welcome
date:       2019-10-11 08:00:00
summary:    A brief introduction about me, the what, the why and the how about this blog.
categories:
thumbnail:
tags:
 - Technology
 - Open Source
---
**Table of Contents**
* TOC
{:toc}


Hi there! Welcome to my blog!
In a nutshell, this blog is an account of my journey of learning ruby, exploring image processing and open source.

Let me give a bit of background. Most of what I am trying to do here, was the results of my discussions with Pranav (you can find him here - http://pgtgrly.github.io). Pranav and I met in a public speaking course in our sophomore year in college, and he gets the biggest share of blame for getting me interested in technology, and eventually open source.
During our discussions, Pranav introduced me to ruby, and after perusing through Metaprogramming in ruby, I was hooked. I found the idea of writing code that can write code amusing. Pranav suggested why not learn ruby by building an image processing library. At that moment, I thought it was too optimistic to think of building a library, however I learnt about bmp images and wrote code to read them into ruby arrays. After more discussion with Pranav, I started to believe it might just be possible to build the library after all.

I am a dual major in Mathematics and Electrical and Electronics Engineering by discipline. Although I dont have a lot of background in Image processing, I have taken (and thoroughly enjoyed) Digital signal processing, which along with my Mathematics background, might just help me in learning Image processing. I will be learning most of the things on the go (including ruby), so bear with me.

The plan is to be able to read the images in different formats (bmp, jpeg, png etc) and store them in an array, and then adding image processing features. However, this might change based on requirement.

I hope you find something useful here :)
