---
layout: post
title: REST APIs - A series.
date: 2021-08-14 20:00:00
summary: Series of articles based on my notes while learning about REST and designing resources
categories: ['Technology']
thumbnail:
tags:
 - REST
---

## Let us start by asking questions - what is an API?
API stands for application programming interface. The last word here is the most important - "interface".
What is an interface? An interface defined a set of rules about how you can interact with something. Interfaces are everywhere, not just in software. For example, in a bicycle, the interface to bicycle would be the handlebars, pedals and brakes - these can be used to ride and control the bicycle. Without these, you wouldnt be able to even get the bicycle moving - even though its internals like wheels, brake pads, chain are perfectly functional.
Just like that, an API defines an interface to a software system. It defines how a user can interact with the system to accomplish something. Mind you, "user" here can be anything - a human, a robot, a computer, or even a cat.
APIs let your product or service communicate with other products and services without having to know how they’re implemented - they just need to know how to communicate with each other to get something done. For example, you dont need to understand how bicycle stops when brakes are applied to ride a bicycle, you just need to know that bicycle stops when brakes are applied.
APIs are sometimes thought of as contracts, with documentation that represents an agreement between parties: If party 1 sends a remote request structured a particular way, this is how party 2’s software will respond.

## Now that we know what are APIs, let us see how they communicate
For any two entities to communicate, there needs to be an agreed upon convention. Human beings have languages, 
computers have protocols.
## What other kinds of interfaces can servers expose?


## What is REST?

## Why are REST APIs useful?


## Relevent links